calibration refactor (#1049)
CliMA/ClimaLand.jl: experiments/calibration/README.md

# Calibration of land model on Derecho

This folder contains scripts to calibrate a land model (bucket or full land) on Derecho HPC.

The folders are organized as such:

```
.
├── global_bucket
│   ├── calibrate_bucket.jl
│   ├── forward_model.jl
│   └── observation_map.jl
├── global_land
│   ├── calibrate_land.jl
│   ├── forward_model.jl
│   └── observation_map.jl
├── job_scripts
│   ├── calibrate_bucket.pbs
│   └── calibrate_land.pbs
└── shared
    ├── make_training_locations.jl
    ├── observation_data_global.jl
    ├── observation_data_locations.jl
    └── rand_locations.jl
```

> ## calibrate\_bucket.jl and calibrate\_land.jl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## `calibrate_bucket.jl` and `calibrate_land.jl`
```

Those scripts are the main script, calling the others. They get the arguments of the ClimaCalibrate function call
for calibration

```julia
CAL.calibrate(
    CAL.WorkerBackend,
    ensemble_size,
    n_iterations,
    observations,
    noise,
    prior,
    caldir,
)
```

> ### forward\_model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `forward_model`
```

> to work, a `forward_model(iteration, member)` function needs to be defined (in forward\_model.jl), this will run
> the model (bucket or land) and save the diagnostics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`forward_model.jl` defines `forward_model(iteration, member)`, the main function that determines the model being run (e.g., bucket or land) and saves the output diagnostics.
```

> ### observation\_map

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `observation_map.jl`
```

> Furthermore, an `observation_map(iteration)` function needs to be defined (in observation\_map.jl), this will
> generate your loss from the model output, in the same format as your observations from data, contained in shared/observation\_data.
> For each member (parameters sample), a vector will be created from the function `process_member_data(root_path)` located in the script
> observation\_map.jl.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`observation_map.jl` defines `observation_map(iteration)`, a function that generate the loss from the model output. The loss function has to have the same format as your observations from data, contained in `shared/observation_data.jl`.
For each member (parameters sample), a vector will be created from the function `process_member_data(root_path)` located in the script
`observation_map.jl`.
```

Reviewer 2: Is `observation_map` the observation operator `H` (mapping model output `x` to observables `y`) or generating the loss function (i.e., `norm(y - H(x))` where `norm` is a suitable weighted norm)? Please be clear here.

│   │   │   │   ├── lwu_1M_average.nc
│   │   │   │   ├── shf_1M_average.nc
│   │   │   │   └── swu_1M_average.nc
│   │   │   └── output_active -> output_0000
│   │   └── parameters.toml
│   ├── member_002
│   │   ├── global_diagnostics
│   │   │   ├── output_0000
│   │   │   │   ├── lhf_1M_average.nc
│   │   │   │   ├── lwu_1M_average.nc
│   │   │   │   ├── shf_1M_average.nc
│   │   │   │   └── swu_1M_average.nc
│   │   │   └── output_active -> output_0000
│   │   └── parameters.toml
├── iteration_001
│   ├── eki_file.jld2
│   ├── G_ensemble.jld2
│   ├── member_001
│   │   ├── global_diagnostics
│   │   │   ├── output_0000
│   │   │   │   ├── lhf_1M_average.nc
│   │   │   │   ├── lwu_1M_average.nc
│   │   │   │   ├── shf_1M_average.nc
│   │   │   │   └── swu_1M_average.nc
│   │   │   └── output_active -> output_0000
│   │   └── parameters.toml
│   ├── member_002
│   │   ├── global_diagnostics
│   │   │   ├── output_0000
│   │   │   │   ├── lhf_1M_average.nc
│   │   │   │   ├── lwu_1M_average.nc
│   │   │   │   ├── shf_1M_average.nc
│   │   │   │   └── swu_1M_average.nc
│   │   │   └── output_active -> output_0000
│   │   └── parameters.toml
```

> each iteration contains folders for each member, inside which you can find the parameters value inside parameters.toml, and forward\_model outputs
> inside global\_diagnostics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
each iteration contains folders for each member, inside which you can find the parameters value inside `parameters.`toml, and `forward_model` outputs
inside `global_diagnostics.jl`.
```

## Running jobs on Derecho

> To run a calibration on Derecho, run the .pbs job scripts contained in experiments/calibration/job\_scripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run a calibration on Derecho, submit the .pbs job scripts contained in `experiments/calibration/job_scripts`.
```
